test(manual): test cli with custom os (#2417)
longhorn/longhorn-tests: docs/content/manual/release-specific/v1.9.0/test-cli-with-custom-os.md

---
title: Test CLI compatibility with custom OS
---

## Related issue
https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/10676

## Test CLI compatibility with custom OS

> **Given** Kubernetes cluster running on custom OS (based on Linux) not explicitly listed [here](https://github.com/longhorn/cli/blob/40b81007971033276c5d548d704ec0f9689f5fa0/pkg/utils/os.go#L18-L32)

Reviewer: Would be better if we could give some example here.
```suggestion
**Given** Kubernetes cluster running on custom OS (based on Linux) not explicitly listed [here](https://github.com/longhorn/cli/blob/40b81007971033276c5d548d704ec0f9689f5fa0/pkg/utils/os.go#L18-L32)
- Linux Mint for Ubuntu-like distro
- Oracle Linux for Fedora-like distro
- Manjaro for Arch-like distro
```

> **Then** Run check using CLI tool `longhornctl check preflight`
> 
> **Verify** The check should complete successfully. No pods in the DaemonSet should be in a failed state.

Reviewer: Some validation suggestion.

```suggestion
**When** Run check using CLI tool `longhornctl check preflight`

**Then** The check should complete without operating system not supported error.

**And** No pods in the DaemonSet should be in a failed state.
```
